# Player Rules
## Design Goals
* Equipment based (no classes or skills)
* Light (few rules, easy to learn)
* Tight (mechanics are tightly coupled)
* Minimal DM overhead
* Interesting player choice at all stages

## Characters
There are three Attributes:
* Strength - measures raw physical power and endurance
* Dexterity - measures speed and deftness of action
* Willpower - measures mental stability and resolve

They are generated by rolling 1d6 for each and swapping two if desired.

Characters begin play with:
* A trinket from their past. Pick or roll and answer the questions out loud to the group
* 3d6*10 hacksilver worth of other equipment. Anything not spent is lost
* d6 HP. This is the damage a character can shrug off before taking more lasting wounds
* 2 Traits. Make them up or roll
* Knowing 1d6/2 languages
    * A language can be 'half-known' - enough to conduct trade
    * All characters should share at least one 'half-known' language - the speech of their ex-captors
    * Language slots can be 'held' for later use, but a character must declare they know a language the first time they hear it
    * If a language is known 'twice', the character is able to read and write in it
* Sharing a small raiding vessel (_Karvi_) with their fellow characters and twelve rowers - fellow ex-thralls who look to you for leadership. There is enough food and water for all hands to survive for four days. You have travelled two days from the home of your ex-captors.

## Equipment
Characters have a total of 10 inventory slots: six backpack slots and four quick slots. Two quick slots represent items held in the hands and the other two items worn on the body, slung from the belt etc. Hand and body slots are easily accesible whereas backpack slots require some degree of rummaging.

For those seeking to fulfill a classical role or "class", a number of equipment packs are provided.

### Trinkets
### Weapons
Light weapons deal d6 damage and take half a slot. Medium weapons deal 1d8 damage and take one slot. Heavy weapons deal d10 damage and take two slots.

| Weapon | Cost | Weight | Special |
| ------ | ---- | ------ | ------- |
| Battle-axe | 10sp | Medium | Forgo a damage roll to attempt a weapon/shield strip. |
| Club | 5sp | Light | Forgo a damage roll to attempt a stun. The target misses their turn and all attacks against them have advantage this round. |
| Dagger | 5sp | Light | Throwable, ignores armour in grapple situations. |
| Flail | 8sp | Medium | Ignores shields. |
| Greatsword* | 40sp | Heavy | Upon a killing blow, the wielder may attack another target. This can be chained. |
| Hand-Axe | 6sp | Light | Throwable. If 4+ damage is dealt, the hand-axe bounces to another target, roll damage again. |
| Javelin | 5sp | Medium | Throwable. |
| Longbow* | 30sp | Medium | A round spent aiming grants advantage on the next attack. |
| Longsword | 12sp | Medium | Riposte once per round. |
| Mace | 8sp | Medium | Ignores 1 point of armour. |
| Poleaxe* | 20sp | Heavy | Can use the special of a battle-axe or spear but takes one turn to switch stance. |
| Quarterstaff | 5sp | Light | Gives +1 to any combat maneuvers. |
| Shortbow* | 15sp | Medium | Can fire while moving. |
| Shortsword | 8sp | Light | Riposte twice per round. |
| Sling | 1sp | Light | Can be thrown as a bolas to ensnare a target or used as a strangulation device in close quarters. |
| Spear* | 15sp | Heavy | Opponents must make a save to move within range of you. On failure, you get a free attack and they halt their advance. |
| Two-Handed Axe* | 25sp | Heavy | If max damage is rolled, roll another die and add it to the damage. This can be chained. |
| Warhammer* | 25sp | Heavy | Target must make a save or be thrown back and sent prone. |

\* Requires two hands

Advantage - Roll 1d12 for damage regardless of weapon.

Riposte - If hit by <4 damage, you may make a free attack against the attacker.

_These special abilties are just examples of what a weapon might do. You are encouraged to discuss with your DM if you have other ideas in a given combat situation._
### Armour
Armour provides or increases a character's armour class (AC). When facing damage, a character's AC is subtracted from that damage. A character can not have greater than 3 AC.

| Armour | Cost | Slots | AC |
| ------ | ---- | ------ | -- |
| Brigandine | 15sp | 2 Body | 1 |
| Chainmail | 75sp | 2 Body, 2 Backpack | 2 |
| Plate | 150sp | 2 Body, 4 Backpack | 3 |
| Shield* | 15sp | 1 Hand | +1 |

\* - Shields can be used with other armour to increase AC by 1, to a maximum of 3.

### Adventuring Tools
### Livestock

## Core Resolution Mechanics
### Saves
When a character is attempting to do something that cannot be resolved through discussion and failure has meaningful consequences, the humble check is employed. A character rolls a number of d6 equal to their most relevant Attribute and attempts to roll a six (success) on at least one die. The number of successes required can be increased by the DM depending on the difficulty of the situation. Characters may also add to their dice total through various advantages available to them, including appropriate knowledge, good planning, helpful equipment etc.
